Hello everyone in this lesson we will continue to build out the styles for our travel website.
Let's dive right in.
So in this lesson we are going to continue styling this content.
If we look at the design file we see that that content is supposed to look like this.
So in this lesson let's begin with this type margravine the textiles for these headlines.
Let's begin by finding these elements in our.
TMF How we can find them by searching for the first trip.
So over in our text editor in the HMO file I will push Command F if you're using Windows you could try
control F and then just search for the first trip.
All right.
So here are those elements we want to give them classes so we can begin styling them.
So what should we name these classes.
Well instead of treating this like a unique section I'm going to create a generic reusable headline
block because we see these headlines and if we scroll down a bit we also see a very similar headline
here.
So in our HMO.
Let's go ahead and give all three of those elements a class of headline.
Let me just copy and paste this onto this element.
And also this heading.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and create a new CSSA file that is dedicated to our new headline block in the app
assets folder within the styles folder and then within the modules folder.
Let's create a new file.
And let's name this new file underscore headline CSX.
Let's create a class named headline And let's begin styling.
So let's treat this style as our base line for the headline block and then we can just use a few modifier
clauses to create these styles.
So if we compare this to what we see in the browser I think the first thing that we should change is
make the headings.
So it's not so bold.
So in our text editor let's say font weight 300.
Let's save this.
But before we can expect this change to show up in the browser we need to go into our main styles that
CSSA file and import this new headline file lives in the modules folder and names underscore Hadleigh
that save this.
And check out the browser.
All right.
That looks a lot better.
I think the next thing we should change is to increase the font size to match the design file.
So let's go ahead and measure the font size on this baseline headline block style.
I will measure from the top of a capital letter down to the bottom of the letter that has a descender
So that looks like about 46 pixels tall.
But remember we want to define our font sizes in terms of Renn.
So let's open our calculator and take 46 and divide it by 16.
So that gives us two point eight seven five REM.
So I would copy that value into my clipboard and then back in our headline at CSSA file that same font
size pasted in red.
Let's save this.
And check out the browser.
That looks a lot better.
Next let's make the baseline color for this block blue instead of black color.
Let's use our main blue variable.
Perfect.
Now let's start working on modifier classes for these two elements.
So if we look at our design file we see that the two of those headlines should be centered horizontally.
So in our age DML on those two elements let's add a modifier class of headline dash dash centered.
All right.
And then in our CSSA file let's create a modifier rule centered text align center perfect.
If we look at our design file we see that the second headline should be orange.
So in our HMO Let's add another modifier class on this element named headline dash dash orange and then
in our CSSA file we can create another modifier rule dash dash orange color should use our main orange
var. perfect and when we compare this to the design file we see that this headline should also have
a bit smaller of a font size than the others.
So in our age TMM Let's create another modifier class named head line dash dash small and then in our
CSSA file.
Let's create another modifier rule font size.
And let's go to our design file and measure the font size for this element.
So I will measure from the top of this B letter to the bottom of a descender in the letter Y and that
looks like about 30 pixels tall.
But we want that in terms of REM.
So in our calculator let's clear that out and take 30.
Divide it by 16 with let's copy that value to our clipboard and then in our CSSA let's paste it in and
say REM save that.
Check it out in the browser.
Excellent.
If we compare this to the design file we see that the small orange headline should also be wrapped onto
a second one.
So to create that effect we can simply apply a maximum with this element.
So let's give it a max width of about 500 pixels.
So in each DML.
Let's add another modifier class to that element of headline dash dash narrow and then our CSSA let's
create a modifier rule narrow maps with 500 pixels save that.
All right so that drop the text down to a second line.
But now we want this 500 pixel element to be horizontally centered itself so we can just say margin
left.
Auto.
Margin right.
Auto
excellent.
Let's compare this to the design file once again.
So if you look really closely you can see that these two headlines use a slightly lighter or thinner
font weight than this headline so to implement that difference let's add a modifier class to the top
two headlines of headline dash dash light.
So copy this pasted onto this headline as well.
And in our CSSA Let's create another modifier rule dash dash light find wait 100.
So this is a super thin white font weight.
Let's save that.
And check out the browser.
Perfect.
Let's compare this to the design file.
And the only thing left that I see is that certain words need to be bold.
So let's go ahead and bold these key phrases in our H.T. amount we want to bold The phrase was our own.
So let's wrap up in a strong tack.
All right.
And then within this headline we want to make the phrase better for everyone bolts let's you wrap that
in a strong tag as well.
Let's save that.
And check out the browser.
Looks good.
And one other thing that I'm noticing is that I think we should decrease the margin below the first
headline.
And I think we should increase the margin below the second headline so to do that let's add on a few
new modifier classes.
So in our HTL Mel on the first headline let's add a new modifier class named headline dash dash.
The margin for bottom margin be margin small.
And on the second headline let's add a modifier class of headline dash dash B.
Margin bar.
Let's save this and create those two modifier classes in our headline CSSA file.
So be margins small margin bottom.
Let's go with point five E-M.
I like to define margin on my text elements in E-M instead of Renn.
The nice thing about using E-M in this context is that it's relative to the font size of the element
itself which means we can reuse this class on headlines that have different font sizes and this will
always scale with it really nicely.
Let's create another modifier class or we add extra bottom margins so the margin large but say margin
bottom 1.6 enim.
And before I say this let me resize my text editor so we can see the change happen in real time.
So as soon as I save you saw the spacing change here it's subtle but I think it looks a lot better now.
So at this point we've completed the styling for the headlines.
Now let's change gears.
I think the next thing we should do is center this image horizontally but really quickly before we do
that I want to address a potential concern you might have with all of the modifier classes we created
for the headlines.
So for example you might be thinking wow that is a lot of modifier classes that we just created instead
of creating all of those modifier classes couldn't we have just created a unique class just for this
heading and a unique class just for this heading and a unique class just for this heading.
Well my answer to that is yes absolutely.
We could have done that.
There's no right or wrong way to structure your success but I do want to give you a little bit of insight
into why I think this modifier system makes sense.
So for example on a larger web site that might have hundreds and hundreds of pages.
The designer on our team might regularly send us new styles for us to develop and if we are not using
the modifier system I feel like it can become a bit exhausting to continually come up with new unique
class names.
Now in the example that we were just working on it wouldn't have been that bad.
We could have named this one maybe main heading.
We could have named this one subheading and maybe named this one alternate heading but on larger web
sites that have more pages and more headline styles I feel like creating single monolithic unique classes
like that can become exhausting and result in disorganized code.
Right.
Because as those headline classes add up over time.
Main headings subheading alternate heading impact heading emphasis heading tiny heading.
Eventually you will reach a point where those class names don't mean anything to you.
There are just too many of them.
And if in six months or a year from now the designer on your team comes to you with a new style for
you to develop.
You might recognize one of the headlines as a style that you've coded in the past but you can't remember
which class name that even was.
And you don't want to be in a situation where it takes you more time to dig through all of your class
names to find the right one.
Then it would take you to just create a brand new class name super awesome magic setting and just rewrite
the necessary CSSA right then and there.
That is how huge disorganized spaghetti CSSA files that are impossible to maintain are created.
But if we were using the modifier system the designer could come to us a year or even two years down
the road with a new style for us to develop and we could just look at the new headline style and say
OK can we create this new style by mixing and matching and combining any of our existing modifiers.
If we can.
Excellent.
If we can't we'll just create a new modifier or two.
We know exactly where to write that new code.
We will know exactly where to find it.
Down the road and our class names have inherent meaning right.
So which one of these naming systems is easier to understand high impact headline or headline headline
large headline orange.
I feel like the modifier system will make sense to us even if we have to revisit the project years down
the road.
Those class names will always make sense and they're easy to reuse and recycle all right.
So my apologies for the huge tangent on class names.
Again there's no right or wrong way to structure your success but I do encourage you to give the whole
block element modifier way of thinking about things.
A real try before you dismiss it for the time being.
Let's get back to the task at hand.
We want to horizontally center this image now in our previous lesson.
We already created a class named wrapper that centers our content in the middle twelve hundred pixels
of the page.
So why don't we go ahead and wrap this image in the wrapper class and then create a new modifier to
make it a bit narrower.
So in our HMO here is that image.
Let's go ahead and wrap it in a div with a class of wrapper.
Be sure to indent this all right now if we save this.
We see that the base line wrapper class only indented it about 18 pixels right.
So let's just add a modifier class of wrapper dash dash medium that will be a bit narrower than the
default twelve hundred pixels.
So let's save this.
And then within the modules folder.
Let's open up the wrapper.
CSSA file.
Let's create a modifier rule medium.
So instead of having a max width of twelve hundred pixels if we look at our design file for just a moment.
Let's go ahead and give this modifier class a max width of about 976 say Max with 976 pixels.
And if we check out the browser there you have it.
So the styling for this section is now complete.
But before we bring this lesson to a close let's see how things look on a mobile or smaller screen.
So the first thing that I noticed is that this gap is too large.
On a smaller screen.
Right.
So I like this amount of spacing on large screens but let's tone it down a bit for smaller screens.
So in our text editor in the modules folder Let's open the file named page section of CSX.
So this amount of vertical padding works well on larger screens.
So let's wrap it in a media query mix in let's say once the screen is large enough to be considered
medium Let's go ahead and use that value of 4.5 REM but let's set a smaller baseline padding.
Let's try to ram then resize my text editor so we can see the mobile simulator.
And let me hit save.
I think we can reduce that even a bit further.
Let's try one point two.
I think that looks better.
Next up I think the font size for this element is way too large on a small screen so to adjust that.
Let's go into our head lined up CSSA file.
All right so this font size of two point eight seven five ram looks great on larger screens.
So what I want to do is copy that line and let's place it within a media query that only gets applied
to larger screens.
So mix in let's say at small and then paste it in.
All right.
And let's set a smaller baseline font size.
I think we could afford to almost cut this size in half.
So let's try one 1.9 round.
I like that.
But we do still want this headline to have a larger font size than this headline.
So remember this headline uses the modifier class of dash dash small.
So let's decrease it a bit as well for small screens.
So here is that modifying rule.
Let's move this original font size into a media query mix at small paste that in and lets decrease the
baseline font size to 1 point to REM.
I think that works.
The next thing that I want to adjust is the way that this image is being positioned incised on small
screens.
So on large screens I think having that image be less than full width and being horizontally centered
looks all right but on tiny screens I just think this looks odd.
I think it will look better for small screens if this image just used the full available way.
Now the reason this extra spacing exists is because we have a wrapper wrapped inside a wrapper.
Right so for example if we look at our HTL Now here is the div surrounding that image has a class A
wrapper and this div is nested within another day of that has a class of wrapper.
Now I can't imagine a situation where we want that nested padding effect to actually take place.
So what we can do is go into up.
SS And let's just say that any wrapper that is nested within another wrapper should no longer have any
horizontal padding.
So it's just offset these values by saying padding left zero padding right zero.
But save that.
So now we still keep this nice original 18 pixels of horizontal padding but it doesn't get applied to
any nested wrappers.
And I think that looks a lot cleaner and we still maintain the desired layout on larger screens.
Perfect.
That's actually going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson.
We will begin transforming this content into the two call them layer that we see in the design file.
This is going to be a lot of fun because we can reuse that column layout pattern down below in the other
sections of the site.
It's going to be a great exercise in writing reusable code.
Let's keep rolling along.
And I will see you in the next lesson.